



		Code of the Holy Order

	Absolutely famished, and needing and in need of some good conversation,
 I asked our Supreme Vicegerant if he would accompany me to Freel for a fine  
 meal at the Hero's Club and a discussion on the state of The Church. After a
 relatively uneventful boat ride, we headed to the Club. I must say that my
 roast beef was a bit too well done, but the fine cognac made up for it.


	After the meal we talked of the direction that the Church was heading,
 and Venom complained of our lack of a Code, a set of rules to live by. Knowing
 the pains that our Church father Kelgath took to dig up the old manuscripts,
 knew that this kind of information must be stored somewhere. The Old Church
 had a great love of writing down all which they thought even remotely 
 important, so a Code must be found somewhere, should it not?
	Well, Venom (poper that he is) had to be going and I walked him to the
  ship and bid farewell. I quickly headed east, and soon arrived at the home of
  my good friend Alfura the Herbalist. Having been a loyal customer of his for
  many years, he was happy to allow me to stay for the night. Though I told him
  I was only there to enjoy his company, he knew my true motives: to extract   
  information from him over a pot of of herbal tea.
	We sat down, and I proceed to ask him about the Old Church and the
 manuscripts which seemed to be lost. He nodded and smiled, and began to tell
 me the story of 'The Flight' which I will relay in other scrolls. But he did 
 show me where I could find the information I was looking for. (the next scroll
 I write will explain this better) So here is the code which will decide the
 conduct of the Holy Order...

1. All judgement shall be left to those who hold the Offices of the Holy Order.
 This council shall decide who deserves punishment and who deserves grace. Any 
 attempt by those, not in the council, to punish a fellow brother or sister,   
 shall be met with extreme reprimand.

2. It is clear that we are not all warriors, thus it is unfair to ask all to
 war in defense of the Holy Church. If thou art a healer, then you must make
 this known to your leaders. And though you are not forced to fight, if you do
 not stay in the Church and heal your Brethren as they fight gallantly, then 
 expect to recieve punishment.

3. As servants of the Great and Might Boccob, you are expected to devote your
 heart, mind, and soul to him. If any of the Holy Order are found to be
 worshipping the false gods, they will be severely punished, up to the point
 of removal from the Order.
4. The Holy Church is sacred, and as such deserves your love and respect. It is
 your duty to make sure that weapons and armour are always available to those  
 in need. (This means your brethren...not the pagans) If one is found to be
 only taking from the Church and never giving back...they will be reprimanded.

5. As Brothers and Sisters under the One True God Boccob, you must devote your 
 lives to each other. Helping, healing, protecting, guiding, and teaching one  
  another as you , in turn, learn to serve your God. If a brother or sister is 
 in need it is your DUTY to help them immediately.

6. The rules of the Council of the Holy Order are law. They shall be followed
 without question. The needs and feelings of the younger priests shall be taken
 into account, but it must be known that the council acts on behalf of the good
 of the Church. Refusal to abide by the Laws of the Order shall be severely    
 judged.

7. Any secrets contained within the Holy Church must remain secret. If one is  
 found to be releasing important information of the Order to the pagan masses..
 they shall be dealt with harshly.

	These are the Laws of The Holy Order...may Boccob allow us to abide by 
them.


	In Boccob's Most Holy Name,

	Sirrus the Lion-Scribe of Boccob


