

	Having been forced tp take some time from my heremetical labours for our
dear Order and return to the cruel drudgery of that not so pleasant place, I,
upon returning here needed a respite to clear my enfeebled mind. As I so often
did in the past, I ventured into the runes beneath the Cathedral in search of
some new artifact to amuse or amaze myself.  One advantage of immortality is 
that I no longer must have a care for my life, it being secured already; with 
this thought, I ventured further into these rank tombs and shamblings than I had
ever before, evan to those places where as a mortal I has stood an shivered out 
fear and compassion for the souls, both good and evil, who's tortured endings
had tormented the very rock of the vault into holding some touch of their 
passing.
	Further on, beyond these points, I ventured evan unto the side chamber
where the stones glow with an odd blue light, and the feeling of great power can 
be felt as a pallible thing that vibrates from the walls as if some great Clerics
of old had, evan as their blood flowed over the stones, imparted their power into
them.  Ah, the walls here were magical and reviting.  The wonderous images etched
into the smooth stone, and evan the tattered shreds of the wasted murials were
among the most beautiful things I had ever seen. Portraits of the church leaders 
of the distant past stared proudly out here in life like images such as I had
never before imagined possible.
	It was here, that I found the thing I most sought in all my journeys: the
record of the Three Great Orders.  Now, I finally possessed the answers to those
questions which most vexed me. I had know for some while that three orders existed
at one time, and that they were equal and different in aspect, yet never did I 
know there true names, or the purpose of each. Always, in later writing, they
were "Black, White, and Gray"...perhaps descriptive of there final hours of 
greatness, both of great evil and great good. The orders were originally called
by different names, and had seperate duties to the Holy Order of Boccob. The
lesser two orders were the Templars and the Hospitalars.  The Templars took as
there sworn duty to defend the Church b strength of arms, and wore armour and
robes of jet black, bearing the Arms of the Church in silver upon them. The
Hospitalars, were the healers, spreading the Peace and comfort of the Church
throught the Realms thru acts of mercy and compassion.  There robes of pure
white carried the Badge of the Order in Gold.  Finally, the most vexing and
mysterious of all, the Illuminati, the elders of the church, whos' strengths
lay in there deep faith and devotion to the Order.  The Illuminati were great
in there powers of magic, receiving unequaled gifts from Boccob.  They were
few and had many secret rites required for entry into the order.  The Illuminati
were distinguished from the other orders by there use of gray, the color of 
nuetrality, as there symbol.  Many of the images I beheld here in what surely
must have been the Chapter House for the Illuminati, should wizened Clerics
battling evil, in robes of grey that seemed to shift in color evan as you
looked at them.
	Thus ends my account of this first journey into the as yet unexplored
depths beneath the Cathedral's northern end.  I, upon reflection, am considering
a pilgrimmage to the far older runes of the Church in Skye, where the ages have
passed since the church left to come to Tristeza and who knows what mystries lay
there for the discovery.

	-Kelgath, the 4th of Waterhaze, Lords Year 600.
	