
My Dear Brothers and Sisters,

	  Please forgive me for not writing in several weeks, but I have been
doing further research concerning the history of the Great Order, and have some
interesting news to relay to you.

	 First of all, I have found that the leader of the Grey Order at the
time of The Great Schism was named Arius.  He, his brother Alistead, and his son
Ashterah, were the ones who conceived the plan to escape to Freel.  From reading
the ancient manuscripts, I began to believe that it was Arius who was
responsible for writing down most of the information on the Old Church, which is
located beneath Old Freel.  He is very careful to list those who were
instrumental in helping the church carry on in Freel...almost to the point of
boring to tears.  Anyway, it seems that because the numbers of the Grey Order
were small, there was little time to teach the ways of the scribes.  Grey
Priests were more concerned with war...and defending themselves.  Sadly, until
Kelgath.....there had been little written.  Now, in my earlier letter I conveyed
that the Grey Order had been starved to death in the catacombs under Freel...but
that a 'shadow' had escaped.  That shadow was a young cleric named Leithan.
This boy, a student of Arius and a friend/servant to Arius' son Ashterah, was
noted for his skill in both war and writing.  Leithan served at the side of the
last remaining cleric, Pathinas (his uncle and former Elector Medico) until he
died, and the expected Boccob to take him as well.  But it seems that Boccob had
other things in mind for young Leithan, for as he was about to commit his spirit
back to his Father above, a great explosion opened the catacombs, freeing
Leithan and killing the Priets who had guarded his potential tomb.  Leithan,
suffering from malnutrition, a severe fever fever, and some form of skin
disease, crawled away from the now exposed catacoms into the woods.....to die.
Now, here is where the written account ends and the spoken begins.  I am told by
Alfura that her great great grandfather found Leithan in some tall grass while
he was gathering herbs.  Knowing full well the punishment he could receive for
helping one of the Grey Order, he took Leithan back to his hut and nursed him
back to health.  Leithan stayed with Alaric (the ancient herbalist), learned the
powers of the great herbs, and continued to serve Boccob as best he could.  Now
all this while, the Black and White Orders in Tristeza were figting with each
other...attempting to gain powers over each other, which only Boccob could
grant.  The leader of the Black Order, Irick the Dark, became posessed with an
evil spirit, and after a period of time....all that was once Irick was gone.
Now, in his hollow shell of a body, reigned a power which none could control.
The war between the Orders was now a true massacre.  Though the members of the
Black Order feared the powers of the Demon...they saw an opportunity to gain
control over the White faction.


       My, oh my!  It seems that I am late for Alfura's dinner.  I shall
continue the story in my next letter...until then....



In Boccob's Most Holy Name,


Sirrus the Grey Lion




