Dear Priesties,

        Much has befallen me in the last few weeks, most of which requires
my presence in other places than the company of my friends in the Holy 
Order. So saying, I must reluctantly confess that the construction of an
improved guild is taking a great deal more time than I had anticipated.
Many of you are aware of some of the changes I have implemented, and many
of you also know what problems these "improvements" are casing code wise.
For those of you who do not, let me by quite blunt. The present spell 
system in the Order sucks, and trying to keep the old spells etc is only
tending to make things worse. As such, I am thinking of scraping them all
together. (More or less). Below is a brief summary how I would like to,
shall we say, begin anew with the guild.

        As many of you who have talked with me or untangled my small hints
(*bow Sirrus, you way to inquisitive*) may have deduced, I do not like the
present genre for the Order. I feel that Boccob the uncaring is, at best, an
indifferent choice of Diety. I have oftened wondered if the order would be
better off serving Boccob in his role as creator of the natural world, as
opposed to some all powerful divine force. For, in reality, have not the 
truely great priests of old been those with the greatest knowledge of the
herbs and roots, weather, animals, and elemental forces than present attempts
to wrest pshycic or magical powers.
        As such, I would dare to suggest that perhaps we should reconsider the
direction in which we go with the Order. I am indebted to Ramlin for his ideas
for potions and such. I asked him to suggest those for one reason, that being
that I would like to see them, a "natural force", used more and pwk, a rather
silly spell used less.  While many of you have heard the phrase Druid before,
not that many of you are porbably aware of the true meaning of it. Druids were
the priests and intellectuals of the Celtic world. Their knowledge of the
natural world- weather, geography, medicinal herbs and roots, astronomy -gave
them great power, perhaps the only power that succesfully resisted Rome for
400 years. And in this land where magic is more easily accessed, would this
"natural power" not be that much more defined.
        I personally would like to model the Order on this bases. Making new
spell to use the things found in nature. A priest might call up a lighting
storm to attack his enemies, or cause blackness to fall, or beer to turn
rancid. Maybe sheets of ice or circles of fire would be nice. These sorts of
things as opposed to "simple" paralyze or "pwk", and why should priests be
using demons, I would think you should be destroying them, I would much
rather have a good war falcon or stag hound. Also, instead of magical pockets
to care everything, wouldn't the Holy Order have a stable of good sturdy 
mules to help?  
        The powers of the order over health would remain, but take on a
somewhat more "scientific" bent, and the psuedospells you use would not
be any more trainable then than they are now. Perhaps a greater emphasis
on things like throwing a handful of "sacred ashes" om a monster and a little
less "you consentrate hard on some silly thought, and blast the monster with
some great ball of metal energy!" For those of you how are quick, you may 
figured out that the cost in sps there would be in manufacturing the sacred
powders and potions and less at actaul fighting time, so, stocking up on
your ingreidents (which would more than likely be saved in the guilds 
crash proof laboratory closets) would allow one to go on an uninterrupted
killing spree, as opposed to the present hack-slash-and-rest method that
grows so tedious.
        The training of your alchemical skills would have a greater influnece,
but the way in which they were trainedwould also change. Also, your general 
overall knowledge would be important (Astronomy being another trainable skill as
it aides in your knowledge of geography, physics, and weather.) Time spent in
the guild would count more for you, your races would have a greater infuence
on your abilities (trolls ARE stupid after all).  I would suggest that skills
in these areas be based on the "state of the art" as opposed to some unknown
and probably unreachable supreme level. (For example: based on askills now,
all of you would get a rating based on how close your askills are to
Ramlins'. When Ramlin sufficiently increases his askills, the soa would be
increased by some amount. With a big enough advance, an new potion or abilty
would probably surface.
        The Order should remain a religous sect, but the relegion should be
based on worship of Boccob (or whom ever, we can choose a new name if you 
want to) based on his glorious (if somewhat lagged) creation, not his 
indifferent treatment of mortals. The leadership system of the guild would  
remain similar (identical?) to the way it is now, and I would formalize it
by building a council chamber where ideas could be suggested and all priests
of the appropriate level could vote on these measures, thus truely implemeting
the ideal of the council as I originally envisioned it. Perhaps the titles 
would change a bit, but so what? This would also allow me to give the Order
it's own language (the taran tafad, or dark tongue) to be used to confuse the
hell out of other mear mortals.
        I have a model for the new Cleric/Druidicalorder, one in which 
the Cathedral is used for worship only, and the Orderhas it's own compound 
elsewhere, were the ingriedents need for new and much more powerful 
potions can be grown in the surrounding fields, and where the roots 
you need and the grapes and grains for alcohol can be obtained to restore 
your sps. Where a blacksmith and carpenter can set up thier shops and
the stables is readily available for transport. (Maybe you can evan ride the
little buggers if your not too heavy). This is my idea anyways, and there are
vast expanses of land open to the east and south of town.....


        Well, this is my idea, and I like it. Perhaps I am becoming tired of
the seemingly always patched together present system. A system where you use
"natural" potions and carry staff's of wood (VERY druidical, btw, they had
nine sacred trees in actuality) and a council of elder leaders, which is the
druidic model as well, but also use demons and have haphazard magical powers
that do not seem to blend too well.
        Btw, this is not an announcement of what I am going to do, but rather it is
me finally stating what I have be thinking for quite a while, it just took me
coming back to coding guild code to realize why I disliked it the way it was.
It is YOUR guild, and you are the players, so what you want is ultimately what
I am going to do. However, it seems that now is the perfect time to make this
into a guild people will enjoy playing for a long time as opposed to the same
stagnent mismash that has been here forever. Do you really wanna remain a 
somewhat relegious set of mages?
        This is my opinion though, and I would like to hear yours. Please mail
me with comments, ideas, or "go to hell" notices. Posting them on the board
here might help as well to encourage others thoughts and ideas.

        Your humble servant,
        Kelgath, the heretic.


