

Okdyetenn 26th in the Year of the Lords 631.
The Chapter House of Saint Andrew, 
Upon the Isle of Skye, 
North by West of New Dothrin.


Brothers and Sisters in the True Faith,

	May Boccob shine His Blessed Face upon you and keep you 
through the troubling times that are to come. I write today in
great humility, having been shown by Boccob's mercy, the main
errors of my pride. Long have I beleaved that I had rightly 
interpreted the ruins of the Cathedral and the other relics of
the Church past, yet, in His Greatness, has Boccob shown my at
last the answers I have spent many lifetimes seeking.
	Let me begin by recounting the past, so that from it 
you may gain the strength to face the revelations of the future.
Long years did I toil as a mortal servant of Boccob, and first
was I to discover the ancient ruins neath the Great Cathedral 
in Trestiza. There I read documents and saw murals depicting
the ancient elders of the church, robed in clothing of white,
and black, and gray. Then did I first write unto you of what I
had learned, of the Great Vicegerants who lead our Most Holy 
Order against the heathens who would destroy all that is right
in the world. Also did I describe the Preceptors, the mighty
arms of the Church, who struck down her enemies like wheat 
before the scythe. And here did I err gravelly. With humility
beyond discription, I must confess that I, evan immortal
Kelgath, was decieved by an ancient lie, yet, a lie more
neccessary than any other.
	Now, to the future. As I had written, I did journey 
forth on Immortal feet towards the most ancient ruins of the
Church I have discovered. It was upon the great Isle of Skye
that I found the bleak stone building that has since haunted
my thoughts. It was to this cold stone enclave that Boccob 
ultimately took me after many journeys and trials. This 
Chapter House as it were from the remains of a sign over the
door. But what was this.. I wondered at the time. Being accustomed
to no need for fear from aught mortal, I boldly pushed open the door
and entered the remains of the keep. Vast and empty, this hall 
was once probably brightly lit and joyous, with a great fire 
in the vast hearth that dominated the center of the room, and
bards songs raised to echo from the ...what was this... gilded
beams and slate tiled roof? Surely the Lord of this place was
once a great man. 
	Looking about, I could feel that sweet, familar compulsion
at the back of my mind I have come to recoginze as Boccob's
guiding hand, leading towards the back of the hall. Two great
doors here stood, carved in ebony, bearing the likeness of
greate warriors, one in blackest armour with livery of silver, 
the other in silver armour with gilded livery. I pushed upon the
doors, yet would they not move... Summoning a fraction of the
power in my immortal soul, I exerted it towards opening these
doors so that I might find the mystery hidden behind them.
Nothing. Perhaps it was fooly, perhaps my pride, but for 
whatever reason, then did I make my greatest error. I summoned
the great core of energy that holds my immortal thread, and 
hurlded it at the doors in a blazing flash of anger. As I
expected, the doors opened inward forcefully. And, I strode
over the threshold into blackness and pain.....
	One note on immortality, it doesn't spare you from
pain. I should have died, but instead I lingered, unable to 
seek death's releaf, it an agony unequalled in all my life.
The pain was all I knew or cared about, and for long days or
weeks I lay unknowing, until at last, I returned to the
few senses I have retained, and awoke to a glorious morning.
Before I awoke, or rather, the journey I was required to take
inorder to awaken, lead me thru what is to be, and what has 
been. Many foolish acts by leaders of the Church did I
observe, my own included, and many great, unheralded acts of
sacrifice and beauty. Yet, the one constant in this dreamscape
I did see was change. I saw the world crack, and drift and
reform into something new. I saw life threads though immortal
clipped short and replaced by new. I saw power, savagery and 
ignorance replace curtisy and charity. Above all, I saw rising
out of the chaos of a world reborn, a great evil. An evil who
at it's heart wished only to destroy the Blessed Church we 
serve so faithfully.
	Yet, then was the fullness of Boccob's plan revealed
to me, for I awoke. And there, looking at me with deepest
concern, was a mortal man who's age has not been equalled
in this world so far. Ancient, and wisened, yet obviously
still once a proud and strong man. Speaking now in that
formal anceint tongue which few now know and I only 
blunderingly, he asked if I was well, and welcomed my to
the Chapter House of the Templars on Skye! For brevities
sake I will condense the teachings I received in this
kind man's last days and summarize what was told unto
me before he died.



	The Long Defeat of the Church Knights

	In ages past, a time so distant that none alive, evan
the most anceint of the immortals, can remember it correctly,
the Knights of the Chruch rode forth on great horses of war,
expanding the Peace of the Holy Order unto all peoples, and
fighting to preserve and extend civilization. A might group
were these Knights, and their faithful service to the Church
was without equal. Apparently drawn exclusively from the
nobility, this select core of Knights were trained above all
others and were a force few could stand against. Noted as
unequalled heavey cavalry, the Knights carried the banner of
the Church and the Vicegerant into many lands, and preserved
the Peace for many centuries.
	Now, Marcus, the ancient knight, made it plane to me
that the Knights were loyal to the Vicegerant and served him,
but were not counted as members of the Priests of Boccob,
but rather as the Military Arm of the Church. As seperate 
group sworn in loyalty to Boccob, and his representitive,
the Vicegerant, the Knights had different purposes and plans
and did those things the Church saw as necessary to preserve
the Peace.
	Expert horsemen, trained with lance and sword, the 
Knights were the foremost cavalry of their day. Garned from 
the flower of the nobility, the Knights had standards of 
curtesy and morality unequelled by any other group. 
This would be their undoing.

	Marcus explained to me that this "Sub-Order" of 
the Church was lead by two men, the Preceptors of the
Church. These men, while military by training, were 
counted as equals with the Cardinals of the Church.
The two divisions of Knights, called, Templars and
Hospitilars had some basic differences but both 
served the Church with great zeal. You wonder now
as I did how this could be true after all that has 
been reported earlier by me. How could there be a
seperate Church group of Knights, how could the
Preceptors actually be their leaders and not high
officials in the Holy Order?? Well..here is the
sad answer.

	In the reign of Justuinen, the last 
Vicegerant of old, a debate arose among the leaders
of the Church as to the proper disposition of the
Church's funds and lands. So great a rift did this
produce among the College of Cardinals that many 
stopped speaking one to another, and some evan 
turned towards false gods in thier pride. The
Preceptor Hospitilar, Maxim, and the Preceptor
Templar, Artorius, stood firm in the beleaf that
the wealth of the Church belonged to the faithful
and should be used to strength the weak and feed 
the hungry. (Of course, a vast share went to the
Church Knights to be used for defense of the
Peace as well). This debate waxed and waned many
years, and climaxed at Justuinen's death. The
College meet to discover who was to be the next
Vicegerant. The Priestly faction was lead by
Mystogen, a very powerful user of magic. He also
was a leader of the party promoting harsh treatment
of those living on Church lands or under the
Church's protective hand. Brave Maxim dared stand 
against his acsencion, and tried to rally the 
other faithful Cradinals to appose this beastlie
mans appointment. Maxim met with a poisoned dagger
in his back during Primes.......
	Mystogen assumed the shawl and the throne,
and all was not well with the Church. Open hostility
towards ancient allies, and new cruelties in Boccob's
name were commetted. All in the name of the Hospitilars,
now lead by Mystogen's toady, Flavus. Great was the 
enmity between Artorius and Flavus, and many Knights
left the service of the Church in disguist over the 
unconsciousable actions performed by the now
rabble filed Hospitilar Knights. 
	This end in tragid on the day that Mystogen 
ordered the arrest of Artorious. Proud Flavus lead 
a host of Hospitilars to the Chapter House of the
Templars to arrest Artorius and dessimate the 
faithful remaining Templars. Terrible was the bloodshed
as the Templars attempted to save themselves and the
Church. Artorius won the day, slaying Flavus on the
field of battle. He carried his head on a lance as he
lead the few remaining knights toward the High Seat of
the Vicegerant at Tristeza. There, before the College
of Cardinals, he threw the bloody trophy at Mystogen's
feet and declared that the Knigths would return to 
serve the church only when one arose to lead the 
Church once again in Boccob's will. Silently,
the Templar's shed their armour, and departed, 
never to bear arms under the banner of the
Vicegerant again.

	The lie? Ah.. the lie... Mystogen died just
days later. As he climbed the stairs to sit before
the College of Cardinals on the High Seat, a small
fly, the least of creatures, bite his right check.
No blood was drawn, but within hours he was dead.
Then did the lie take birth. For it was decided 
that the shame of the Church was too great for the
world to know, and a history untrue was created
to hide and mix the facts. This then was planted 
in the crypts of the Church, and all record of the
faithful Knights of Church were distroyed. All but
on small section. For on Skye, at the Chapter House
of the Templars, one young knight was found. He 
was given the task of keeping the Banners of the
Knights unsullied until some should come to
bear them up again. He was given the immortality
need for this task, and warded from harm by
the greatest magicians in the Order. And so,
did I find Marcus millenia later...............

  