To my Dear Brothers and Sisters in the Church at Tristeza,



	If you have noticed my absence these last few weeks, it is because I 
 have been staying in Freel doing some research on the Old Church. I have been
  staying with Alfura and I must say she is a FINE hostess. She keeps my 
 physical needs met, while my studies have been keeping my mind in similar   
 condition. So, here is a low down of what I have come across:

	We already know that there was a great war between the White and Black 
 Orders and it seems that the Grey was persecuted for their refusal to align   
 with either. It seems that the Vicegerant of that time, had aligned himself  
 with the White Order, believing the Black to be a blight upon Boccob himself.
 Thus, his command was that the Black be completely eradicted, and all those
 who sympathized with their cause would receive the same sentence. 
	The Black Order, refusing to knuckle under what they considered to be
 a slap in the face of Boccob, fought back with a force unrivaled in the  
 history of this world as we know it. The Black called for the death of all 
 who donned the white robes, and for a time, those holy white robes became 
 crimson.  Sadly, the sentence of each of the Orders left no pardon for the 
 Grey. They were slaughtered unmerciufully by both sides, and because of thier
 numbers, defense  was nearly impossible.`
	As I read on, the manuscript became vague and where the was text, there
 now was only pictures. From what I could tell, the Grey order stole two wagons
 from the Holy Brewery, stocked it with provisions, and escaped into the night.
	It seems that they cut a deal with Captain Manow, and he ( at the risk 
 of losing his life to the warring Orders) ferried the Grey sect to Freel, 
 where they lived in seclusion. Because the Holy Order at large was organized 
 in ways that we can only dream of, they had spies everywhere, including Freel.
 Because of this, the Gray Order moved underground to catacombs beneath Old 
Freel.
	The fact that there even was an 'Old Freel' was unknown to me until I  
 began to root around in the history books in their great Library. I urge you 
 all to read those books when you can. Anyway, I dug around in the ruins for 
 several days until I came upon an entrance to the 'Holy Catacomb of the Grey'.
	In the walls were carved beds for the priests, and now they all seemed 
 to be filled with  skeletons. I can only assume that as the Grey Order's      
 prescence on Freel became known to the Black and White, they were forced to   
 defend the catacombs. Being almost impossible to take by force, the caves were
 then shut up, and the Grey Order died of starvation. Amongst the old pages I  
 found ghastly pictures of half rotting corpses with thier arms outstretched...
 pleading to their God for mercy.
	Alas, Boccob did not answer in the obvious fashion...but he did allow  
 a remnant of the Grey Order to exist....a shadow which escaped from the tombs 
 of death.
	But my pen-hand is growing weary, and Alfura is calling me down for    
 another magnificent supper. I can only thank Boccob for His protective hand 
 and for the blessings he has laid upon me. Take care my Brethren, and I will 
 return shortly....I promise.


	In Boccob's Most Holy Name,

	Sirrus the Lion-Scribe of Boccob


